The Claddagh ring is a traditional Irish ring that originated in Galway and dates back to the 17th century. At least, that's what wikipedia tells me. The ring itself is composed of three key parts: the heart, the crown, and the two hands. Each part carries meaning. The heart signifies love; the crown, loyalty; and the two hands signify friendship. Traditionally, Claddagh rings were given as engagment rings, but have also become popular gifts from friend to friend, or for family members. 

My Claddagh ring was neither; not so much a gift, but rather a casual passing down of a family history. In fact, I am only one of many women in my family to own and wear this ring. Before me it was my mother's and she only gave it to me because it no longer fit any of her fingers and it conveniently fit mine. She recieved it as a gift from my aunt, my father's sister, Barb, who had it passed down to her by her mother, Elizabeth. 

When I look down at the ring now resting on my finger, I think of all the incredible, strong women who wore it before me. I think about the past and the history one tiny object carries with it. And most of all, I think about where it all started, in a small town in England when a young British man met a beauitful Irish woman at a dance and fell in love. 

This is a sotry I've heard many times from my mother. Although it is a story about my paternal grandparents, when I was little my mother and grandpa would stay up late talking about his life and all the horrible and wonderful events that brought him to Canada, and when he died, she told them to me. 

For all intents and purposes, this is a fairytale, with wicked step-parents, orphans, wishes, adventure, love, and a happily ever after. So in that vein, let me begin with the most cliche statement of all:

Once upon a time...

The Kelly family, a family of six children, three girls and three boys, lived on a farm in Northern England with their mother and father. One day, without any just cause or explanation, the mother walked out on her family and never looked back. The father, a soldier in the Navy, couldn't stay to look after his children because he had to leave to fight in the war, so he sent his six children away to orphanages. The three girls were sent to one orphanage, while the three boys were sent to another, unsure if they would ever see each other again. The eldest child, just six-years-old, was Michael Kelly, my grandpa. 

Michael lived in the orphanage for sixteen years, over which time he received no love or nurturing from the nuns who ran the orphanage, and as the eldest son, carried the respsonsibility of looking after his two younger brothers. While at the orphanage his father visited only once and wrote letters when he could, but unfortunately was killed in the war. His mother never visited or wrote. On his sixteenth birthday Michael was allowed to leave the orphanage, and having nowhere else to go--and still loving his mother unconditionally as children often do--his mother allowed him to come live with her and her new husband, but only under the condition that he would work on the farm, for free. 

Although she wasn't his step-parent, Michael's mother was just as wicked and heartless as any other Disney fairytale villain. On top of working on the "family" farm for free day after day, his mother forced him to get another job to help pay the bills. But little did she know, Michael had bigger plans than simply staying and working on the farm like a slave for his mother. He dreamed of a fresh start in a new and exciting country far away from the one where he'd only known sorrow. So, with each payment from his outside work, he gave some to his mother and hid the rest in the toe of a boot under his bed, saving up for his escape. 

In the years that followed, Michael's life consisted only of hard work and little reward in the form of love or gratitiude from his mother. But his "boot savings" were growing significantly day by day and the dream of soon escaping his slave-like existence started to seem possible. This dream, unfortunately, was interrupted briefly when he was called to fight in the final years of WWII. 

But, things started to look up for Michael as he was lucky and survived the war unscathed, and although he had to return to the monotonous days on the farm and the cruelty of his mother, good fortune was awaiting just around the corner in the form of my grandma. 

Elizabeth Kerwick, or Betty as most people called her, grew up in Tipperary, Ireland in a big, but fairly normal family. However, like Michael's family, things in Betty's life took a turn for the worst when a family member walked out. This time it was the father and this time, there was an evil step-parent. Betty's new step-father came with new step-siblings, and like Cinderella, Betty was pushed aside and treated like a slave, rather than a member of the family. Imagine blankets on cold concrete floors and scraps of food served in a dog dish, and this was Betty's daily existence. The conditions were horrible and, like Michael, she wished to escape from it all. 

So, one day she did, and she fled to England. 

In a time when Tinder, Bumble, and other online platforms are the foundation and building blocks of new and budding romance, it's hard to relate to or even fathom the possibility of the romances explored in classic love stories exhibited in books and films. The whole girl meets boy, a courting ensues, boy and girl fall in love, etcetera is not the norm nowadays. It's more like, girl sees boy on tinder, boy and girl both swipe right, boy and girl meet in real life, and someone is not who they said they were. This is romance in 2019. 

But in 1947 things looked a bit different. 

The night my grandpa, Michael Kelly, went to the monthly town dance, he entered the hall dressed in his best clothes, which were shabby and second-hand from his mother's drunken husband. Despite the disrepair of his clothes, he made his best effort to look nice, his jet black hair slicked back, eyes shining. He had no idea he would meet the love of his life tonight. 

And neither did she, Elizabeth Kerwick. Betty.

Betty was no stranger to these dances. In fact, she was quite sought after with her perfectly coiffed auburn hair, her deep green eyes, and her charming Irish accent that made everything she said sound like a good idea. She had noticed Michael at other dances, his back always pressed firmly against the wall as if he were glued to it, his eyes always searching, dancing along with the people and the music, but retreating to the ground whenever someone grew too close or threatened eye contact. He was shy, but Betty had seen, in a few fleeting moments when his blue eyes did not gaze at the floor, a kindness, and something about him intrigued her. So, that night, while Michael stood in his usual spot, against the wall watching the goings-on of the evening, Betty danced with her friends and a few men who introduced themselves as potential suitors, but all the while she watched the shy boy with the blue eyes. 

As the night progressed and drew near to a close, one of Betty's "suitors," encouraged by the alcohol in his system, became handsy and beligerent and a tad too insistent that she leave with him. Betty, being quite an outspoken and independent woman, was not intimidated by this man, however, she did see it as an opportunity. So, when Michael's blue eyes landed on hers, she made sure to communicate with them that she needed help, and when his gaze did not drop to the floor, she took that as her invitation and walked across the hall to talk to him. 

Michael was enamoured with Betty right from the word "hello." She introduced herself with a smile and articulated the situation she was currently in with the belligerent drunken man, appealing to Michael's manly desire to play the hero. But before he had a chance to do so, Betty, being bold woman that she was, asked him if he could drive her home, to which he somehwat stunned, but happily responded with, "of course." He took her home that night on his motorcycle, her arms wrapped around him as they traversed the the countryside and twisted and turned through the town. And by the time he walked her to her front door and they bid each other farewell, Michael knew he had to see her again, and Betty was determined to make sure that they did. 

And the rest, as they say, is history. They were in love from that point on. 

But, despite this new and wonderful love in his life, Michael's deepest desire was still to leave Egnland and his horrible family situation behind him. The money in his boot was enough to get him a ticket to sail away to a new country and start over. The choices were Canada or Australia, both of which seemed exotic and appealing in their own way. He couldn't decide, so he flipped a coin. Canada. This was an extremely conflicting time for Michael because he had always dreamed of leaving England, had saved his money, and now he could finally go to Canada and make this dream a reality. But that would mean leaving the love of his life, Betty, behind because she had a job, and a life, and not enough money to make the journey. 

The day of his departure, before boarding the boat that would take him to Canada, Michael pulled from his pocket a Claddagh ring he'd found in a shop and purchased with the remaining boot money. He presented it to Betty, placing it on her ring finger, and promised he would marry her one day, for she was the love of his life. Then they kissed and embraced and promised to write letters and be together again some day soon, and Michael boarded the boat and sailed to Canada, leaving Betty behind. 

Canada was nothing like Michael imagined. It was cold, grey, and lonely, but he was finally away from his manipulative mother and working towards starting his new life in Vancouver. The only thing missing was Betty. They wrote back and forth for months, articulating their feelings and desires to be together, and fantasizing about a future where that could be a reality. 

But Betty was not the only one sending Michael letters. His mother's manipulative presence managed to traverse the atlantic ocean and in *her* letters she manufactured lies about Betty, saying she was traipsing about town with countless men and that she was unfaithful to him and encouraged Michael to end things with her. Naturally, Michael was heartbroken and being so far from home and Betty and everything he knew, he was vulnerable to these lies, and believing them, stopped writing to Betty. 

However, my grandma wasn't just going to sit at home and wait for some man to get his act together. So she packed her bags, left England behind, and boarded a boat to Canada to fight for the man she loved. 

When Betty finally arrived in Vancouver weeks later, she went to Michael's apartment and learned from his landlord where he would be, and went to the docks--where Michael worked--to meet him. As the boat Michael was working on floated in to port, he saw, standing there on the dock, auburn hair blazing behind her in the wind, the woman of his dreams, the love of his life, and the moment the boat docked, he bounded towards her, kissed her, and vowed never to leave her side again. 

And they lived happily ever after...

At least, that's what I've always been told. Unfortunately, due to an aggressive tumour my grandma died long before I was born, and even before my parents met. Because of this, my grandma, Betty, has always been this mysterious and fascinating woman in my life. Seeing as I am the only other redhead in the family, aside from my grandma, the comparison between us has always been greatly explored and discussed in my family. Everyone always talks about her courage and fearless nature, qualities I've always admired and aspired to emmulate. I mean, imagine leaving everything you know behind you and travelling *by boat* to a foreign country where you know absolutley no one, all for a man you love, in the hopes that everything will work out and he will be happy to see you. Now *that* is brave. 

So, now, I have her ring, *the* ring resting on my finger, reminding me every day of the fearless woman going after what she wants. When I look down at the ring on my finger I see that history, I see my grandma, and I see Ireland. Although her family home was not a happy one, my grandpa always talked about his wife's love for her country, for Ireland, and how one day she wished to go back and to show her family its beauty. 

I went to Ireland shortly after this ring came into my possession, and standing among the green countryside in my grandma's homeland, I let my hair down. I let my red locks blaze behind me as I gazed off into the distance, and I vowed (quite dramatically) to be fearless. To go after what I want and chase the things worth chasing. Love. Some people say I am a hopeless romantic, which I ardently disagree with because I am strongly opposed to the "romance" we expect today. But when I think of my grandparents and the love that crossed oceans and continents, it's hard not to believe in "true love" and all the things people write poems and books and movies about.

Just think of this: My grandma died of a brain tumour on Easter Saturday. My grandpa died of a brain tumour on Easter Saturday twenty-five years later. 

Call it a coincidence. Call it miraculous. But to me, it will always be...true love. 
